# Assignment Specification.

## Overview.

__Objective:__ Demonstrate your knowledge of the React framework and ecosystem by designing and developing a SPA. The app may extend the Movies app developed in the labs (preferred option) or bespoke.

__Completion__: 31/08/2026.

__CA Mark__: 60%.

__Deliverables__:
A text file (**assignment.txt**) containing:

+ The URL of your source code GitHub repo.
+ The URL of your YouTube video demonstrating your app.

1. The README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and **must be complete and accurate**.
1. You must maintain a detailed Git commit history throughout the assignment period. I would advise that you commit at least once for every development session. Commit messages must always state the purpose of each session, whether completed or not - **the 'only commit working code' principle need not always apply.**
1. You may be requested to complete a **short Zoom interview in the 1st week of September** to present your work.

## Grading spectrum.

Each grade band (e.g. Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent) lists **example features or capabilities** that can help you reach that band. **You don’t have to implement every single feature** in a band to earn that grade. **Quality and selection** matter more than just ticking boxes. You can mix features from multiple bands.

### Good (40-50%).
__Theme__: Foundation skill set.

__Characteristics:__ The new features developed are similar to those that originated in the labs regarding component structure, UI style and behaviour.

__Features__:

+ UI - New views/pages (3+).
     + List view (e.g. Most popular movies, Actors, Similar movies, TV Series).
     + Detail view (e.g. Actor Bio, TV Series).
+ Routing - New routes.
     + At least one additional **parameterised URL**.
     + Data hyperlinking.
+ Data Model.
     + An additional data entity type, e.g. Actor, TV series.
     + Server state Caching.
+ Functionality.
     + Additional filtering and/or sorting criteria.
     + My fantasy movie. (Basic) (*1)
     + Other....

1. The user can create their fantasy movie page. Limit the details to Title, Overview, Genres, Release Date, Runtime, and Production Company(s). 

### Very Good (50-70%).
__Theme:__ Adapt and experiment.

__Characteristics:__ Some of the new app features have unique characteristics in terms of component structure, UI style and behaviour.

__Features:__

+ UI.
     + Extensive data hyperlinking.
     + Pagination - for data-listing pages. (*1)   
+ Routing - Basic authentication.
     + Private and Public routes (e.g. Movie Details).
     + Premium functionality for authenticated users (e.g. Filtering).
+ Functionality. 
     + Favourite Actors/TV series.
     + Multi-criteria Search. (*2)
     + Translation functionality
     + Other.
+ Storybook support.

1. See [react-query pagination][pagination] support.
1. Search for movies based on criteria submitted on a web form. The form should use appropriate controls - menus, checkboxes, etc.

### Excellent (70-90%)
__Theme__: Independent learner.

__Characteristics__: Can research and use techniques and technologies not covered in the labs/lectures.

__Features__:

+ Functionality.
     + Ordered Favourites.
     + Create themed movie playlists (Title, Theme, Movies). 
     + My fantasy movie (Advanced) (*1)
+ Routing.
     + 3rd Party/custom Authentication - [Supabase](https://supabase.com/)/Custom API.  
+ Deployment (e.g. [Vercel][vercel] )

1. Allow the addition of a cast, where each member has a role name and description. Adding/Uploading a movie poster.

### Outstanding (90+)
__Theme__: Exceptional ability.

__Features__:

+ Backend persistence using new API endpoints/Supabase - e.g. Favourites, Fantasy movie.
+ Rich feature set.


[pagination]: https://react-query.tanstack.com/guides/paginated-queries
[supabase]: https://supabase.com/
[vercel]: https://vercel.com/

## Use of AI

If you use AI to support your development process, do not let it replace your understanding. For example, AI can be used as a learning aid to understand how a feature works (e.g., how does React Query do caching? or Why do we use `useEffect` here?), or how to implement something properly (e.g., how to set up private routing in React). 
Do not just copy and paste or accept AI-generated code with no understanding what it does(*"blind vibe coding"*). You should understand and be able to explain your code.  Where detected, unacceptable use of AI can result in 0 and you will be requested to redo the assignment. 

